Welcome back.
Remember what I said before.
Programs are simply assigning memory for example assigning a value to a variable and then running a
function for the program to do something with those variables.
That's all programs are and without functions our programs wouldn't do anything.
This is an important concept in all programming languages.
And as you'll see in future videos functions give us some amazing powers in JavaScript So let's define
functions and some of the common terms around them.
We already touched on the fact that we have function expressions and function declarations a function
declaration is something that starts with the function keyword.
And let's just create a function India and this function will simply console log form because it's pretty
warm in India.
A function expression on the other hand doesn't start with the function keyword instead can look like
this and say variable Canada and that's going to equal.
Function and inside of this function it's console dialogue and Canada is very cold at least where I'm
filming right now it's extremely cold and that's a function expression and we've learned about this
and how function declarations get hoisted.
Function expressions don't I could also write this with an arrow function and do something like this
if I wanted to I'll have the same effect.
Now with our functions we can call them right and the terms here sometimes vary but you can have a function
let's comment this out.
We can have function invocation calling a function or you can even have execution of a function and
what that means is we're telling our JavaScript engine to hey run our function.
We've put these functions in memory or at least we've assigned to a variable and now we're ready to
do something with our program.
So we do a function invocation by simply running the function with curly brackets.
And as soon as the JavaScript engine sees this it says All right what do we do.
We create an execution context.
Same with India
going like this.
I invoke a function I call the function I execute the function.
If I click Run it's working and this is pretty basic nothing new.
Right I wanted to go over the terms just so we're clear for the next few videos.
When I use these terms and to review when it comes to the Canada function well this function is defined
at runtime when we actually run the function or call the function or execute the function or invoke
the function.
That's when we define what this function does versus India where this function gets defined at pastime.
That is when the compiler initially looks at the code and starts hoisting and allocating memory.
Now these functions when they're executed have a another piece to them.
Let's have a look.
When a function is invoked Well we create a new execution context on top of our global execution context
and we get a few things.
We get the this keyword which we've already talked about and we'll define it a little bit better later
on in the videos as well but unlike the global execution context that gave us a global object that equals
to this instead with a function invocation we get something called arguments and that's another key
word in JavaScript let's have a look at this arguments keyword.
If I scrolled down here and let's start off with a new function.
This function is going to be called Mary and it's a function that Mary two people person 1 and Person
2 it has parameters and inside of this function will just simply console dot log arguments which according
to what I just said we should have access to because when we invoke this function we'll get past an
arguments object and just are from let's also return from this function a template string that will
say Person 1
is now married to
Person 2 How cute is that right now from here.
If I run the memory function with let's say marrying Tim and Tina if I run this I'll get Tim is now
married to Tina.
That's great.
But look at that we get something from this console log arguments let's write arguments in here and
just so we can be a little bit more clear as to what's happening.
And if I run this we see that this arguments keyword gives us an object with the first index being Tim
in the second index or in this case key being Tina.
So we get that special object very interesting.
Now if what I told you is correct that means we don't really get arguments in the global object do we.
If I run this I'll get an error.
Arguments is not defined because while arguments is only available to us when we create a new execution
context with a function All right so we got the arguments object but you might remember something from
our previous videos.
Remember this we talked about how to help the JavaScript engine optimize our code and I told you not
to use arguments and I kind of gave you a vague answer as to why that is.
Well in the next video let's have a look at why that is.